[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Healthy habit number five
is all about cold exposure.
The science is emerging and
proving and showing to us that
by exposing our bodies to
a little bit of a challenge
in the morning-- i.e., having
a warm shower and then exposing
it to the cold just at the end--
can help to stimulate brown
fat adipose in the back,
can help to stimulate
the production of oxygen
in the cells, and help to
improve your immune function.
A cold shower a day keeps
the doctor away, they say.
I hope you enjoy it, and
I hope you try it out,
because once you do,
you'll never go back.
Enjoy.
the
>> In the morning,
you're still in bed,
so you're very tranquil.
Your body is detensed
and up till the tissue.
Then, you're without
food in the body,
so the body's chemistry
is not into working.
It's not digesting the energy.
It's not concentrated
over there.
It's able to flow throughout.
So if you do your
breathing exercise
and you can show it to
yourself from being acidic,
because the night goes on,
all kinds of acidic elements
come out of your body,
they get into your system.
You see yourself being
acidic when you rise.
Within 20 minutes
of this breathing,
you will be able to become
completely alkaline.
And that makes you very
much better performing
during the day.
Very much more in control at
will of your mood and energy.
We only need to do
this breathing, just
deeper breathing.
And sometimes, a cold
shower is stimulating
the vascular system, which
is the transportation system.
And it brings about
energizing elements
inside the body called
oxygen. And it brings it
to the immune cells.
And then the immune
cells are awake.
When you have these temperature
differences, people get a cold.
And it's only because you
are not adapting directly
to work that change, because
your immune cells are not
really active.
They are a little bit,
because of the comfort,
and like a muscle non-trained.
It doesn't know
how to handle it.
So what we do with
the cold shower
is alerting the immune cells by
alerting the vascular system.
It's 75,000 miles, 1,000
miles, inside of each of us,
full of reflexes and
primitive muscles.
They are being exercised
by the cold shower.
Then the heart rate goes
down, but because it
doesn't need to compensate the
loss of the vascular system
to transport oxygen and
right nutrients in the body,
so stress hormone is less.
And why?
Because the heart rate goes
down to its natural status.
It's far too high, and
creating stress in the body.
It's alarming for
a heart, which go,
trying to compensate, to get the
blood flow through because all
these little muscles and the
reflexes of the 75,000 miles
are not working together
with the heart, lazybones.
Then the heart
trying to compensate.
It creates a signal to the
brain stem, the primitive brain,
the reptilian brain,
hey, there is danger.
Stress hormone.
And that stress
hormone is constantly,
in the modern man, woman,
human in society, present.
And it keeps the
sympathetic nervous system,
the action going.
Thus, on the cell level,
there is no peace.
There is no rest, which it needs
to rehabilitate for its energy,
to store up energy.
Thus, we get defense
systems of ours,
they become lower, because
they have no energy.
And we are working ourselves
even to burnout and fatigue.
Very important that the defense
system, it needs energy.
And we have all the
systems to do that,
but we do not
breathe well enough.
And that's why it
doesn't get the oxygen.
And then all these processes,
like aerobic dissimulation,
they don't happen.
And then the defense
systems, of course,
are not accurate to work its
ability to fend off disease,
to adapt to any danger, not only
the cold, but also to virus.
We got all these.
We are exposed all the
time to bacteria, viruses,
and bacteria.
But if the defense
system is right,
then there is no
danger whatsoever.
And we got it all in our heads.
And we can feel when
we become a little bit
awkward, like getting
to sickness, or flu,
or a fever, or any other
disease, like autoimmune,
you know?
We can feel it, but we lost
this contact within to deal
with that at that moment.
We take it for granted.
And we keep on in our rat race.
And we do not know how
to stand still and become
aware of our physiology
at that moment,
to maintain happy,
strong, and healthy.
We just know it.
But now we got it.
So comfort, real comfort, is
the confidence and the strength
and the happiness within, and
maintaining it at any time.
Be the master of yourself,
and that feels good.